# Understanding the current meta

## Stacking camps

### Understanding the junle

The jungle is the area in between lane. In the jungle:

* **Vision is hard**: Because of lack of towers or crepp waves, there
  is no natural vision. A lot can go on in here without the enemy
  knowing about it. It's an area that is often heavily
  [warded](https://dota2.gamepedia.com/Observer_Ward), where lane
  rotations happen, is generally considered dangerous.
  
* **There are shrines**: [Shrines](https://dota2.gamepedia.com/Shrine)
  are like a mini-fountain in the jungle.
  
* **There are camps of creeps**: lots of [neutral
  creeps](https://dota2.gamepedia.com/Neutral_creeps) in there. These
  creeps are mainly used for farming and some advanced techniques like
  [creep pulling](https://dota2.gamepedia.com/Jungling#Creep_Pulling).
  
  
### Jungle Farming

Because of neutral creeps, it is possible to find farm in the
jungle. However the jungle has less farm than a lane. A team will
generally prefer finding farm in all 3 lanes, even at the cost of
ignoring the jungle.

Here are the common situations where someone farms the jungle:

* **Greedy support**

When its 3 cores are finding farm in lane, the team can send a support
farm the jungle. This is great for support heroes that badly require a
single item in order to come online.  Heroes like
[Enigma](https://dota2.gamepedia.com/Enigma), [Keeper of the
Light](https://dota2.gamepedia.com/Keeper_of_the_Light) or
[Chen](https://dota2.gamepedia.com/Chen) are often played this
way. 

Greedy supports are not very popular in the current meta, most teams
prefer concentrating farm in 1 or 2 cores, and picking heroes that can
be useful without farm.

* **Trailing core**

If a core is heavily losing a lane, they can be heavily shut down. The
solution is ususally to rotate support to this lane in order to
reestablish the balance. But if the supports are busy, an alternative
is for the core to abandon lane and find farm in the jungle. This is
less than ideal but it beats standing in lane and getting nothing out.


* **Stacking**

Stacking is a powerful manoeuvre that allow for a team to generate
more farm in the jungle. It is possible through a small manoeuvre to
double the net worth of a camp every minute. [You can generate a new
camp on top of the old
camp](https://dota2.gamepedia.com/Creep_Stacking).  Good supports can
do it for 2 camps at once, and some of them can do even 3.

Have a support do this every minute for 5 minutes and there's already
aconsiderably more farm in the jungle, comparable to a lane (I should
really do the math some time).


### Stacking strategy

Stacks are super important in the current meta. Almost every team is
treating jungle stacks as a priority. Teh team needs a couple of things for
this to be effective.

* **Appropriate cores**

The team needs to pick a core that can kill multiple camps of creeps
really fast. [Medusa](https://dota2.gamepedia.com/Medusa) can use
Split Shot, [Sven](https://dota2.gamepedia.com/Sven) can use Great
Cleave and [Queen of Pain](https://dota2.gamepedia.com/Queen_of_Pain)
can use her spells.

If a carry doesn't have a natural way to farm stacks, they can buy
items to improve things. A common item is
[Battlefury](https://dota2.gamepedia.com/Battlefury), that is almost
always bought on [Anti-Mage](https://dota2.gamepedia.com/Anti-Mage).


* **Protect your stacks**

There's nothing worse than investing 5-10 minutes building stacks all
over your jungle only to see the enemy group up as 5, invade your
jungle and steal all your creeps. A lot of the first observer wards
and the early rotations are all about detecting creeps and stealing
them from the enemy.
